---
title: "Fenway Rebel Nurse - Inaugural Issue"
date: 2023-05-08 00:00:00 -0400
author: frn
categories: [Labor Organizing]
tags: [fenway]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

## NURSES’ WEEK 2022 TO NURSES’ WEEK 2023—SUMMING IT UP

Nurses' Week is a time to celebrate the contributions of hardworking nurses everywhere. But last year we nurses at Fenway Health were (and still are!) overworked, understaffed, and underappreciated. Then we got the cherry on top: the crony firm Fenway hired to do their dirty work reached the stunning conclusion that we weren't in need of a raise at all, and they soon announced that we would no longer receive cost-of-living adjustments at a time of record inflation, rent increases, and opportunistic price gouging nationwide. This doesn't begin to mention management's negative response to the letter submitted by nurses around the same time. This would be an outrage any time of the year, and in the lead-up to Nurses' Week, it was a downright disgrace. Since then, in some ways we've seen improvement, but in many other ways it's gone from bad to worse. We've lost a lot of nurses, but we've also gained some amazing new team members. As we move on to Nurses' Week 2023, we invited Fenway nurses to offer their reflections on the past year. These are their words.

## REFLECTIONS ON THE PAST YEAR FROM FENWAY’S REBEL NURSES

“In the last year, I can wholeheartedly say that being a nurse has felt like a fever dream. I entered this career with a lot of commitment and passion three years ago but almost every experience I’ve had since has required being highly adaptive and learning by fire. I was hoping that at some point things would slow down but they haven’t really and the demands and expectations have only gone up without much consideration. I still love the work that I do and I strive to make my patients feel heard and cared for every day. I work with an incredible team and I sometimes forget how flawed our healthcare system is because of the energy and collaboration we show up with. Sadly, I know the demands of this career are not sustainable for my health at this time. I have felt pretty disconnected from the nursing world lately and find myself putting most of my energy no longer in the job but in my own joy and fulfillment apart from working. I think at times I feel guilty about making this change over the last year but I remind myself that it has been a tough few years and it’s okay to do this. I think this is something that a lot of my peers and I struggle with and I hope we learn to come to peace with accepting what’s best for us.”

“As the pandemic has rolled on—a year ago we were two years in, now we are three years deep (even as many feel Covid is over)—people (patients and medical staff alike) continue to feel the toll. Folks are testier, more impatient, quicker to anger. The organizational wide changes have also presented challenges as we all adjust to new systems. In the midst of that I try to hold on to what I can: witnessing a patient’s joy when injecting hormones for the first time, the friendship and support of colleagues, a handwritten note I received from a longtime patient who transferred his care closer to home, thanking me for all I’d done for him over the years. I don’t know what the future of nursing will be, but I hope it’s a less bumpy ride. We would all benefit from some smoother, calmer times.”

“When I look back on the past year, I marvel at how my perspective has evolved as a new nurse. This time last year I was terrified of taking the NCLEX and finishing my last clinical in nursing school. Now, I have been working almost five months as a RN and the learning curve has been extremely steep. I have overcome many challenges thus far, the most difficult being learning the delicate balance between having confidence in your skills and accepting that you are going to make mistakes. When you are in school, confidence can be gained through grades, however in real life, true clinical competency comes through experience. When you are in school, your biggest mistake or error does not impact others' health or life. Therefore, it is harder to realize the full weight of this responsibility until you make your first real mistake. One of the biggest lessons I have taken away from my first five months as a nurse is that it is normal to make mistakes, and that I will likely make one again. What makes a good nurse is not about being perfect, but what you do after you make a mistake — accepting accountability, acting quickly to correct course, and learning going forward. During Nurses Week, I also want to recognize all who came before me and have taken the time to train and teach me. Their patience and willingness to support me as a nurse is something I can only pay forward. I hope and trust that I will continue to grow and gain that experience as time passes and I have been so grateful for the collaboration between my fellow nurses, providers, and those we serve.”

“With all the upside down changes and being pulled into a million directions I’ve realized it’s now the time to take care of myself and my career. I learned from this past year in nursing that you have to take care of yourself first to be able to care for others. As with flying on a plane you have to first put the oxygen mask on yourself before helping others. As you descend into chaos.”

“This past year has marked 5 years since I stood at the podium and took the nightingale pledge. Since the pandemic began, but especially in the past 12 months, I find myself angry, exhausted and disheartened more often than not when I come to work. While it is more sustainable to draw energy from a place of joy and love for what you do, that gets depleted and things aren’t currently structured to help you recharge. Your need for a mental health day shouldn’t be overlooked because of guilt for the struggle you will put on your team and patients. A sick day doesn't mean you want to work from home. The job doesn't end when you clock out, because you have inadvertently become the “go to” person for Family, friends, friends of friends and more. As a nurse, you have chosen to make it your mission everyday to improve the lives of others through education, care and being present in the moment to connect! When will the people we report to actually make it a point to take care of us? Hopefully this year is better!”

“Over this past year I have worked in 3 different departments at Fenway Health. I started the year working as a clinical research nurse in The Fenway Institute. In The spring/summer of 2022 I felt the burden of the financial crisis at Fenway Health. I was asked to split my time 60:40 to Research and medical internal medicine respectively. In the medical nursing department I was directly affected by disorganization and poor training related to day to day expectations and the pending EMR Epic rollout. Working in medical was not a part of my job description. I asked for help to improve my productivity and to go back to my full time position as a research nurse. I received pushback and was told by a supervisor that my ‘discomfort is a lose/lose for you, but a win/win for management’. This is emblematic of the lack of support I felt over the course of the year. In order to leave medical I was forced to leave my position in TFI at the end of October. This brought me to tears. In November I was hired by DPH at Fenway Health working in sexual health and drug user health. I have since now included the Medication Assisted Treatment team. One of the toughest parts of this year is the financial struggle and anxiety of not knowing if I or my colleagues will lose my job or funding. The financial crisis that Fenway Health has created has affected the mental, physical, and financial health of every one of its employees.”

“The past year has been an incredibly bumpy, uncomfortable ride. There are days I've felt completely overwhelmed and defeated. Thankfully I've had some amazing coworkers to rely on. We'll see what the next year brings. Right now I'm trying to stay positive and hopeful for smoother times to come."

“This year has definitely had its ups and downs. We've had managers who tried to break us and managers who have tried to lift us up. Some of us got raises and some of us didn't. We lost some amazing staff, but have had a few amazing additions to the team. But, together as a team, we've made it through. We've had some ‘casualties’ which have been devastating, but we didn't let it break us. We've stuck together and I think we are a stronger team because of it. I wouldn't want to work with any other team . . . At Fenway or anywhere else!”

“This past year has shown me how even the nurses who seem the strongest can break. It has also shown me that nurses can be resilient in the right environment. The past year has shown time and time again that in the wrong environment—one where our efforts are no longer appreciated and being “good at our jobs” earns nothing but the ask that we do more, cover for more, give more—we break and lose sight of our purpose. When nurses cannot be the caring people we want and know we can be; our colleagues and community suffer. As nurses we need to stand together in unity to get through, to persevere and to fight for what we and most importantly our patients and communities deserve. This year has shown me that while we may crack or fall, we have the power to pull it together and get up when it matters most.”

“I’ve been able to form therapeutic connections and deliver patient-centered, culturally competent, trauma-informed care while working as a nurse at Fenway despite the enormous challenges and lack of resources that are the result of Fenway Health’s financial crisis due to mismanagement at the highest levels. I show up to work every day and do my best to continue to meet my patients’ needs. I would not be able to do this without the support of my colleagues who also continue to show up despite the myriad institutional challenges. As difficult as it may be, it is critical that we continue to show up and provide care while pushing back against vile attacks by those who want to prevent members of marginalized communities from receiving life-saving care.”

“Being a nurse at Fenway Health has been something of a dream of mine. Being so impassioned to give care to those in the LGBTQIA+ and BIPOC communities is something I've really wanted to focus on. That being said, I'm really only at Fenway Health because it is hard to find a job that meets those passions. I also really hope that we will see change for the better within the next year or so. Within a month at Fenway Health the veil was pulled back and the rose glasses were taken off. I still love the work I do, but it feels like Fenway Health has a chokehold on their patients as well as their staff who want to make a difference. It was irresponsible to have situated our main campus in a horribly inconvenient spot, just to maintain the name of "Fenway". At this point if Fenway wanted its name to be a household name for trans and BIPOC care, they should have spread out to where our people are. Not to give luxury to the CEO suite who have no idea how our patients live or the struggles they go through. Or even our struggles as staff. We work in Boston and are paid enough or less than for the cost of living around us. Moving past all the issues I could go on and on about, I love my coworkers and my patients and I'm here for them. Not Fenway. Happy Nurses week!”

“In light of myself not yet having a formal review since coming aboard last summer, I am wishing the greatest nurses’ week ever to the nurses here at Fenway that from the beginning of my orientation to the present, have helped me to grow, expanded my knowledge, and given me the confidence I needed to serve our patients. It might not seem like it (sometimes or ever), but I do believe it takes courage to show up and do what we do on a daily basis. What I love most about being a nurse at Fenway is the privilege of just being there; creating that safe space for our patients to not only exist in, but for some, to also experiment with what feels to be a more true version of themselves they have probably been holding back. Then, it is the camaraderie I’ve witnessed among the nurses that then further extends to working collaboratively with our providers and medical assistants that actually keeps the clinic running day after day after day. Now, I am mindful to talk about our team of nurses in a general sense, because I know by observation that I could not differentiate the capacities in which the RN and LPN work at Fenway; 95% of the time we are doing the SAME JOB. This is why I am in solidarity and share frustration with the LPNs whose work at Fenway is valued and additionally, whose salaries should have seen an increase just like that of the RN, in the email sent last month. Nurses wear many hats and step up for Fenway’s mission…whether it’s taking on ALL the nurse visits for one day, to initiating the PA for a patient whose medication shouldn’t have needed a prior authorization in the first place, or finally retrieving that fax order that you swear has never shown up in your pod’s fax inbox before – it is the little wins and achievements that carry me through each day working here. We got through the switchover to Epic…and eventually learned how to desensitize ourselves from some pretty nasty messages from patients as we worked to correct and address their needs…in what is, no doubt, a flawed system. It all comes back to our innate desire to want to help. Our nurses are loving and determined, ultimately making the extra effort to develop workflows by the scattered bits of information and bring many miscellaneous tasks to a close. I make the commute to Fenway each day to make existing in this world a little easier for others. It’s time for Fenway to consult with us nurses (rather than, say, a consulting firm) to listen and prioritize our needs alongside those of all of our peers, knowing it will do better by us and our patients. Make it easier for us to show up knowing that our priorities matter too. HAPPY NURSES WEEK !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!”

“The past year has brought many more changes for nurses at Fenway to navigate. Last year’s letter was not received well by management, and subsequently we suffered many further staff departures. These nurses had strong relationships with their patients and provided attentive care to many who were and are suffering. I miss working with them everyday, and I wish that they had been shown more compassion and appreciation during their time here. And by appreciation, I don’t mean pizzas and T-shirts. I mean the demands that we thoughtfully articulated in our letter as well as flexible scheduling that accommodates our tumultuous lives. Significantly, in December Fenway Health made the change from one Medical Records system to another. All nurses felt anxiety around this because we have seen many sweeping changes be poorly implemented at the expense of staff & patients alike. The switch to Epic can be described as half-assed, disorganized, and crude. Nurses were pulled away from providing nursing care to spend time transferring data from the old system to the new one because the team tasked with doing this job was ill-equipped to manage it themselves. Even now, 6 months later, when I need to learn important health information about a patient, there is a chance that I will be opening a completely blank chart because their information has not been appropriately transferred. Nurses here have become all too familiar with picking up slack from everywhere else. The failures of management ultimately become our problems to fix, and subsequently our attention is pulled away from our patients, many of whom have highly complex care plans. We know that the successful operation of community health centers makes all the difference in terms of health outcomes for those living with chronic illness, and yet when we raise alarm about the conditions of our patients’ care we receive only empty platitudes about the mission and reminders about the demands of the almighty ‘market.’ So why do I still work here, at this supposed ‘health center’ that operates more like a PR firm? It is because I know that the clinic’s current leadership is only leadership in name. The true source of ingenuity, resilience, creative problem-solving, and thoughtfulness is among my fabulous coworkers. The answer to our problems will not come from above, but rather it will be forged in the solidarity that we show each other. And so I call upon my fellow nurses to unite with each other and with our coworkers in alliance against the crooked bosses. Nurses, we have nothing to lose but our chains, and we have a world to win!”

## PUTTING THINGS IN PERSPECTIVE

Like 2022, 2023 has been another hard year. We've seen more staff departures, the poorly managed implementation of Epic, unethical policy changes, the expansion of patient panels for already overburdened providers, more barriers to patient care being created by policy, and aggressive promotion of the pharmacy as a cure-all solution to our problems. It's clear that if we want things to change, we must make our voices heard. But ‘making our voices heard,’ doesn't just mean talking. We've already been doing a lot of talking!

Discussing our problems with our coworkers is talking. Writing out our thoughts and feelings for this publication is talking. Filing incident reports and bringing our concerns to our managers is talking. The letter from Nurses' Week 2022 was talking. We have to recognize that talk is only gonna get us so far. If we want change and management doesn't, what's to stop them from just not listening to us?

I'll tell you what will stop them from ignoring us: collective power! Don't despair, get organized! At other clinics and hospitals across the nation and around the world, nurses and others have shown that you can fight and win with a secret weapon called the union. By banding together, making collective demands, and taking decisive actions in opposition to the bosses, nurses have won better working conditions, better pay and benefits, and control over the places they work in, victories which could not exist if the nurses fought on their own.

It's as that old Pete Seeger song, Talking Union, says:
The boss won't listen if one guy squawks, But he's got to listen if the union talks,
He'd better,
He'll be mighty lonely if everybody decides to walk out on him.

Though the bosses may offer us concessions, change will not come from above! We must make the change we want! We must be the Fenway we want!