---
title: "Organizing Work in A Bottling Plant: Summing Up A Practical Sequence [Submission]"
date: 2023-12-05 00:00:00 -0400
author: tyler
categories: [Labor Organizing]
tags: [summation]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

*The following document was submitted to us by Tyler,  a warehouse worker currently working in food logistics in Chicago, and published after discussion and review; Tyler can be reached at dtsdtw1966@protonmail.com.*

To start; the shop is a small liquor distilling and bottling operation in an industrial district of a medium-sized city on the US west coast. Although both the physical location and the number of workers are relatively small, the shop is operated by one of the largest food and beverage conglomerates in the world, which is owned by elements of the American and European haute-bourgeoisie. When running full-speed the facility has a productive capacity of approximately $70 million dollars of product per year, although technical and staffing problems  have limited this. At the time of the sequence, there were three separate units in the shop; Production, Bottling and Warehouse. There is one Warehouse worker, two Production workers, six Bottling workers and one mechanic, all of whom are hourly, while two salaried managers oversee the entire shop. Bottling is the lowest-paid, least-skilled, most highly-socialized and by far the most grueling work, involving ten-hour shifts of constant assembly-line activity, ranging from manually cleaning bottles to stacking forty-pound boxes of finished product onto pallets in preparation for distribution. Production and Warehouse workers have specialized technical knowledge in distilling and logistics operations, respectively, and are paid slightly betterg than those on the Bottling line. They also work alone or in teams of two, whereas the Bottling team always works cooperatively.

In late winter of 2022, about half a year after I started the job, there had been significant murmurs, among the Bottling line workers in particular, around our compensation. We were being paid $19/hour, which was about $0.75 higher than the no-savings, bare-necessities "living wage" for one person living alone in our area. One of the women workers had been homeless and couch-surfing for the entire time she had worked there, over six months. Another was moving out of state because he couldn't afford the cost of living while supporting his child. Still another was applying to Amazon warehouses for work during the weekends to help with her debts. Finally, one day while working in a small-group station on the Bottling line I raised the idea of a petition to management to have our grievances addressed. The people I was working with enthusiastically agreed, presumably for many of the reasons described above; as the lowest-paid, most highly-socialized unit, our strata was structurally predisposed to a higher level of militancy. Over the next week I set about talking to all the other workers on the line. There was unanimous support for the idea among the Bottling workers, although many expressed concerns about how the other, slightly better-paid, workers would take it. When I was sure that everyone on the Bottling line would offer their support, I raised the idea while we were all eating lunch together, and having collectively agreed to undertake the venture, we started the process of crafting the petition. The floor was open to all suggestions, but I pushed for the adoption of three main demands; a wage increase, a regular cost-of-living raise, and the elimination of mandatory unpaid holidays (the factory closed on days like the Fourth of July, but we were not paid unless we used our own vacation time). Operating on a basis of unanimous consent, these points were adopted without much modification. We agreed to ask for a $1.50 raise, 3% cost-of-living raise every 6 months, and paid holidays. The full text of the petition is included here, with identifying details omitted:

> This is a petition from the undersigned [Company] workers to management, and whoever it may concern. We want the following three things:
>
>- $1.50 raise for all hourly employees, effective immediately 
>- Institution of a scheduled 3% raise every 6 months, starting 6 months from now
>- End to unpaid holidays
>
> Over the course of any single week, we process more than a million dollars worth of liquor. At the same time, many of us are struggling to pay rent, working second jobs or looking for better work altogether. This distillery is struggling to hire or retain quality workers, for good reason. [Our city]’s ‘living wage’ in 2021 (which allows for basic necessities and no savings) was [~$18.75], and prices are rising every day. Equivalent workers in unionized Kentucky distilleries make $20.00 per hour, which, if adjusted for [our city's] cost-of-living, would be over $27.00 per hour. We are united in this petition, and we would like a public reply within 2 weeks. 

We agreed to finalize this petition among the Bottling line workers, print several physical copies and then present the petition to each of the remaining workers individually, right before delivering it to management. All but one of the other hourly workers agreed to sign the petition almost immediately, including the nominal foreman of the Bottling line. A word on this foreman; her role was, in every sense, to serve as an intermediary between the Bottling workers and formal management. Her technical knowledge was higher than that of the regular Bottling workers, but lower than that of our manager-engineer, and she had more day-to-day responsibilities than them. She had authority to direct production throughout the shift, but no powers to hire or fire. Crucially, she did not work on the line unless necessary. Her signature on the petition was therefore a significant addition, although as will be seen later, the unity was temporary. In the process of discussing the petition with the non-Bottling staff, we learned that one of these workers had very recently seen their individual request for a raise denied. We also learned that a second worker had gone through significant labor unrest, including a sick-out strike, and a unionization process at a previous facility. This worker asked to speak with the Bottling team, and advised us to discuss next steps and know how far we were willing to advance the struggle. A discussion was held among the Bottling line as a group, where the prospect of a sick-out strike was raised and received significant vocal support. In subsequent individual discussions, I introduced the idea of slowdowns.

As tactics, both slowdowns (the intentional slowing of production through coordinated slacking, work-to-rule, etc.) or sick-out strikes (coordinated absenteeism) would have provided a way to directly hinder production, and therefore the surplus-value generated by the facility, while not completely exposing our small, politically-isolated workforce to retaliation in the way that, for example, a conventional strike would have. They also would have developed our consciousness of the fact that our victories came from our unity, our courage, etc. These aspects, among many others, must be considered when choosing tactics. Very rarely is there simply a question of 'effective' and 'ineffective' tactics. One tactic might accomplish a short-term goal, while hampering the long-term political development of the workers. Another might help develop one worker's intermediate political consciousness while isolating them from the mass of backwards workers. For example, it was suggested to me at various points by outsiders that I should raise the worker's problems with local media, or with celebrities associated with the brand of liquor. It is possible that this strategy would have been 'effective' in improving our situation, but it would have been devastating for the political development of the workers as individuals and as a possible proletarian nucleus. What sort of lessons are we trying to impart here? That when proletarians have a grievance, the best response is to link ourselves with some 'friendly' section of the bourgeoisie and meekly solicit their leadership? As communist sympathizers, we want to win every struggle into which we intervene, of course. But this can never come at the expense of our long-term orientation towards the construction of a proletarian class party fit to wage and win a war against the bourgeoisie. 

Once we were comfortable with our plan we decided to move forward, and a fellow worker and I delivered the petition to our site manager. He asked for clarification regarding some of the numbers cited, then promised to forward it to the relevant people. We thanked him and told him that the petition had nothing to do with him personally. 

The petition was delivered on a Wednesday. The next day, during our regular Thursday afternoon meeting our site manager told us that it had been escalated to corporate, that it was being taken "very seriously" and that there were good signs on all three of our points. The following week, we were told that the key person in the hierarchy who needed to sign off on the decision was on bereavement leave, meaning we would have to wait another week. The following Monday, two days before our deadline, we were called to a special meeting and told that we were receiving the following; immediate $3.00 raise, immediate elimination of unpaid holidays and the institution of an annual review process which included the possibility of pay raises depending on the status of the shop, the company and the markets. Non-Bottling workers were met with individually and given similar assurances. The raises varied, but were all above the $1.50 from our petition. Two senior non-Bottling hourly workers, both of whom signed the petition, have since refused to disclose what they were given and have said that they were given strict instruction by management not to do so. Thus far, this represents the end of the sequence.

The principal practical task of isolated communist sympathizers in a situation of labor struggle is very simple; sharpen the ideological and political contradictions between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie. This can take a variety of forms, from increasing mass participation in the class struggle or raising the ideological level of the mass movement, to developing proletarian autonomy and bringing up leaders from within the movement. 

My shop had no history of struggle; the closest things were a) an assistant foreman shutting down work without authorization during the hottest day of the year and b) a previous meeting where workers aired their grievances about pay (then $16.50/hr) to the boss, which resulted in the raise to $19.00. It was necessary, then, to start at the absolute basics. I had been slowly listening to and questioning my fellow Bottling workers on their grievances since I got there, so I had a decent understanding of the demands around which I could agitate — wages were one, holidays were another. My choice to push for a petition was initially undertheorized, but, in retrospect, I believe it was the correct decision. It bound us together as a group of signatories in a way that, for example, the airing of grievances by individuals at a meeting would not have. Furthermore, the actual text of the document allowed me (and you) to take a read on the political level of the group. It also initiated a process in which we, the workers, acted collectively, after which then management responded, and so on. Finally, it circumvented the normal, bourgeois methods of escalating workplace problems.

These last two points are particularly important because they represent possible steps toward the autonomous self-articulation of the proletariat as a class for the workers in the shop. Forms of mass action that are politically independent of the bourgeoisie are a precondition to the development of proletarian politics in the full sense, encompassing politics, ideology, culture and various other spheres which together form the nucleus of the new society. Indeed, it is impossible to imagine the spread and development of proletarian ideology through the popular masses under conditions of political domination by the bourgeoisie. While we certainly did not manage to excise bourgeois ideology from our midst, and the struggle did not develop further, the particular form that the process took did leave that road open.

Increasing mass participation in the struggle was a tactical imperative for us and is a strategic imperative for the proletarian movement. The broadest possible participation in struggle against the bourgeoisie provides the proletarian movement with the richest possible ground for political and ideological development. For us, it was a necessary show of force, and a first step towards consolidating the base required for higher levels of struggle, if that were to come to pass.

We chose to unite the Bottling line first before attempting to win over the other workers. This strata of workers clearly represented the 'lowest and deepest masses' in our context, something which the Bottling workers implicitly acknowledged when talking about the other workers. The road of organizing particularly exploited departments as political strongholds is not new — the Italian Brigate Rosse famously used the stamping department of the FIAT Mirafiori Works as a reliable political base. I pushed for this course under the assumption that the Bottling line would be more easily unified and politically dependable. This assumption was partially borne out: while all of the Bottling workers signed the petition and discussed it freely, one non-Bottling worker refused to sign (warehouse, a key position) and two others who did sign subsequently refused to disclose the raises they had received. On the other hand, it is possible that we would have achieved greater unity by integrating the other strata from the start, rather than presenting them with a proposition that was, if not quite a fait accompli then certainly something which had already been solidified without their input. I don't have the answer to that question, and I believe more experience would be needed to know either way.

As can be seen by reading the text of the petition, the ideological level of the workers is quite low. The refusal to use the word 'demand' and the sop to 'quality workers' both demonstrate the domination of bourgeois ideology within our ranks. Another striking example is was the emergence of a line calling for the petition not to be shared with one of the Bottling workers who was new, regularly absentee and widely disliked — even though that worker had, despite their personal unreliability, expressed full-throated support for the idea. As an expression of the internal contradictions and uneven development of our grouping, the document contains both positive and negative aspects. In this moment the positive was primary, since the overall thrust of the document was to initiate conflict with the company, but negative aspects are still clearly visible. One particular positive aspect was the contrast between our wages and the value we produced, which the document laid out. Both before and after this sequence, I attempted to develop this point in individual conversations with my coworkers. These efforts were relatively well-received, and advanced us towards a more complete discussion of the appropriation of surplus-value by the bourgeoisie, and therefore the kernel of the whole capitalist-imperialist system. 

The ideological level of the workers is so low that the question of the Party could not realistically be posed - and certainly not over the course of such a short struggle. Applying Lenin's categorisation from *A Retrograde Trend in Russian Social Democracy*, we can characterize the entire staff as members of the 'lower strata', what is contemporarily referred to as the backwards strata. This strata, according to Lenin, may be sympathetic (or not) to socialism but "it is quite possible that a socialist newspaper will be completely or well-nigh incomprehensible to them." They do not participate in political study, conduct agitation or even read socialist literature. If we accept that the workers in this context were at this level, it would therefore have been inappropriate to focus propaganda (the broad picture of capitalist-imperialism, with all its contradictions) on any of them, or form a study circle or nucleus — activities for which they would be grossly unprepared. Broad agitation, or the exposure of one contradiction at a time, was the most appropriate type of ideological work in this environment. Had the struggle continued for longer, it is possible that opportunities would have arisen for significant leaps in the consciousness of individual workers, or the workers as a whole.

Class struggle is, of course, never one-sided. It is the dialectic between, at minimum, two active and competing classes. To see the whole picture then, it is necessary to discuss the actions of the bourgeoisie and their agents. In sum, they acted relatively shrewdly during this sequence, accepting a tactical defeat to maintain or improve their strategic position. Our initial petition made it clear that without *some* sort of change, there would be significant disruption at the facility very soon, whether that took the form of organized activity or simply an exodus of disgruntled workers. The company could have fought to water down the demands, or even just accepted them as-is. However, on top of granting holidays they chose to double our wage increase. This had three functions. One, it made it look like the company was generously offering us a big raise, rather than simply acceding to our demand (management's rhetoric followed this line — implying, completely without basis, that they had been working on this raise themselves before we even brought it up). Two, it distracted from them smuggling in work-discipline 'performance reviews' and no guaranteed cost-of-living raise. Three, and probably most importantly, it terminated the struggle quickly and nipped worker militancy in the bud. The workers were politically confused by the company's Janus face and satisfied with their immediate gains, while the company didn't lock itself into any long-term problems, whether that be mandated raises or the scarier prospect of a more militant workforce. Even the way in which the news was brought to the workers - separated by department, with pressure put on certain people not to share their situations — had the effect of weakening our unity along existing fault lines. Additionally, there have been hints of increased work discipline along with the raise, which have yet to materialize but may offer another insight into the company's reasoning — pay us 10% more and get 30% more out of us.

The mass line method of leadership should also be discussed. Tactics were the area where this was the most relevant — as an aside, I appeal to others for a discussion on how the mass line method of leadership should be used regarding strategic questions, as I will personally admit to confusion in that area. Two examples stand out. First, the manner in which our foreman was approached was proposed almost entirely by one worker, particularly the ideas of waiting until right before we submitted the petition to management, and also of rhetorically stressing the potential hypocrisy of not signing the petition from the foreman, who had always made a big deal out of being our "advocate" to management (foreclosing on the possibility of us advocating for ourselves, of course). In this particular case, I had no clear idea of how we should approach the foreman, so after considering the worker's suggestion I was happy to adopt it as my own line. 

The second case was different, however, and involved the approach of our site manager. Although I did not have a formed idea of how to go about this, my instinct was towards an aggressive, confrontational approach which presupposed that the site manager was in the camp of the bourgeoisie. This was a subjective and emotional perspective derived from having watched the site manager literally crank the dial to initiate speed-ups, as well as being the visible face of other annoyances and indignities. However, two workers (neither being the one from the first example) proposed that the site manager be approached calmly, and that it should be emphasized that he was not the target of our petition. Their argument was that he, the site manager, did not set wage levels, and that avoiding needless personal drama with him would give our petition a greater likelihood of success. This might be true, but when reflecting on the proposal I tended to focus on the fact that the site manager could, like many middle managers in the United States, be thought of as on par with, even if not actually part of, the lower end of the petit-bourgeoisie. This is to say, his wealth and income would allow him to initiate a small (maybe even tiny) capitalist enterprise, even if he chose not to. The petit-bourgeoisie are a middle class, between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie, and so they are naturally vacillating. They might be brought into the camp of the proletariat on one occasion, then rapidly defect to the camp of the bourgeoisie, or vice versa. The class stand of our site manager was therefore not a foregone conclusion. By resisting the temptation to alienate him at the very beginning, we left open the possibility of drawing him into our camp, and at the very least discouraged him from swinging towards the bourgeoisie. Had the struggle escalated to a higher level, having the site manager be sympathetic to our cause, or even simply wavering, could prove to be valuable. For those reasons, I chose to discard my initial line, and push in conjunction with the two other workers for a calm approach to the site manager. 

This particular point raises the question of the masses; in other words, who are our enemies? Who are our friends? Marx articulated clearly that the development of the capitalist mode of production generated two opposing and inter-dependent classes - the proletariat and the bourgeoisie. However, uneven development has lead to the creation of many other classes; peasants, petite bourgeoisie, lumpen-proletarians, etc. Each of these classes has a different relationship to the capitalist-imperialist system and to other classes, deriving principally from their distinct relationship to production. None of them are identical with the proletariat or bourgeoisie, but within a given context they may principally align with the bourgeoisie or with the proletariat. When participating in struggle it is not enough, therefore, to simply identify a particular class force in isolation. Careful study must be made of the objective and subjective factors at each new stage, before making judgements on the trajectory of a class or its individual members.

Rather unusually for my political experiences, there isn't a great deal that immediately jumps out for self-criticism during this sequence. It is possible that I could have been more diligent and forceful in my agitation, for one. I had no real plan of agitation, but rather attempted to do so whenever an opening presented itself. It was only at the meetings to discuss our petition that I ever attempted to agitate to a group larger than one or two workers. I have watched many people try to forcefully argue (often bourgeois or postmodern, to be fair) political points in a work environment, and it quite often ends with the alienation of the person who was supposed to be convinced, and the implicit or explicit labeling of the 'educator' as haughty or annoying. I wanted to avoid this, and simply be a regular worker who pushed in the right direction at the right time, but it is possible that I over-corrected and missed opportunities for further advancement of the struggle. 

Another point is the conflation of politics with social life. Although I consciously tried to avoid this, I consistently found it difficult to separate my personal feelings about people from their objective political role. For example, I had personal disagreements with one of the other people at our facility, which made it difficult to connect with them. Consequently, when it came time to approach them for political action, I had little relationship with them — not much of a leg to stand on. Luckily, other workers were able to talk to that person and bring them onboard. The other side of the coin is the difficulty of judging people with whom I got along very well. I had an impulse to view people who I joked and worked well with in a generally better light than those with whom I had a neutral or negative relationship, even though there was no evidence that they were any more politically advanced than anyone else. Although this factor was not decisive during this sequence, it very well could be in another one, and it represents an area of improvement towards a more effective politicized life.

A good chunk of the workers viewed the outcome of this sequence as a stunning victory, but I am inclined to view it as a tactical victory with indecisive, or arguably even negative strategic implications. While the simple economic demands were generally met, the ideological level of the workers remains largely the same as before the sequence. It is possible that some may now even view the company on better terms, thanks to their clever manuevering. However, none of the workers can deny that our collective effort was what led to the changes, which may be a tip-toe in the direction of a trade-unionist consciousness, but in my view represents a step forward nonetheless. 