---
title: "Fenway Rebel Nurse - Issue 4"
date: 2023-09-13 00:00:00 -0400
author: frn
categories: [Labor Organizing]
tags: [fenway]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

## PETITION TO HIRE OUR COWORKER FULL-TIME

If you’ve read our recent issues, you know that one of our own rebel nurses (”RJ”) has been fighting to keep doing the job that they love at Fenway’s South End location. First we were told that there was a hiring freeze, then the bosses walked that back. Next, we were told that outside candidates were being considered despite the organization’s policy to prioritize internal hires. And even worse, sources on the ground can attest to the South End nurse manager McKenna Harden and Director of Nursing Danielle Jenkins openly bad-mouthing RJ, stating that “they don’t want to work here,” a baseless claim and projection of their own anti-worker agenda. On September 1, RJ received notice that they were denied from the position. The following petition was drafted in response by their coworkers.

> 9/1/2023 - FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
>
> To whom it may concern,
>
> We, the undersigned Fenway Health staff and community members in solidarity, believe that RJ, RN, would be the best fit for the open nursing position within Family Medicine at Fenway South End. RJ is a talented nonbinary nurse who enjoys undeniably strong rapport with Fenway's patients in Family Medicine and everywhere else they work. The fact that they were rejected from the full-time position for which they have been patiently waiting for several months is inexcusable. In the time they have taken to get back to RJ with their decision of rejection, 2 outside hires have been brought on for other nurse roles even though the organization claims to prioritize internal hires.
>
> It is more than apparent to RJ's coworkers that they have the skills and capability to be a full-time nurse. Not only have they worked to further their education while being with Fenway, but also worked to further their skills within Fenway. They have taken on positions as charge nurse on many occasions, have learned how to manage the desktop with advice from surrounding nurses, and have made sure to assist staff and patients whenever needed. It is our belief that there isn’t a better suited nurse for the position.
>
> RJ has been an essential member of the team at Fenway South End and has worked here as close to full time as able. They dedicate their time and energy to serving our patients all while management denies them the ability to work full time and get benefits from the job that they love. RJ has no benefits as a per diem nurse, and management knows that their refusal to bring RJ onboard full-time is a barrier to RJ receiving health insurance post graduating school.
>
>RJ loves the clinic, and because they love the clinic they want to see it do better. They have been outspoken about the ongoing staffing crisis facing the clinic and they boldly advocate for the needs of nurses and patients alike - like any good nurse would! And as a result their manager and director have openly bad-mouthed them to their coworkers. To management we say - YOU WILL NOT DIVIDE US, ENOUGH IS ENOUGH!
>
> We call upon management to see the nurses for who they are - caring and thoughtful human beings providing necessary care to vulnerable people. Nurses are not simply tools at the disposal of executives and consultants seeking to maintain their profit margins. Nurses are not simply numbers on a spreadsheet that can be moved around and replaced at will. RJ is an integral part of our community and our ability to provide quality care to patients - and they deserve the full time job.
>
> RJ, unlike a new hire, does not need dedicated resources for training and is ready to start at a moment's notice. We call upon management to provide us with due support and hire RJ full-time immediately. And similarly, we demand that management not stand in the way of our further commitment to our patients, our community, and for each other. We have a right to organize among ourselves and we will fight for staff that deserve to be here!
>
> Signed,
>
> (alphabetically)
>
> Andy Rodriguez — Call center rep\
> Ann Burke, RN — VRP Advocate\
> Ariel Shvartsman\
> Aubrey Bachant\
> Beckett Schneider\
> Caroline Provost — Friend and supporter\
> Cathy Jacobowitz\
> Chase Spearance\
> Collin Lee\
> Connor\
> Cooper Schwartz, MD\
> Dana King\
> Edil N. Flores\
> Eli Latto — Behavioral Health Specialist\
> Elizabeth Fieg\
> Em Peters\
> Emily Aarons, RN — FSE FAM MED RN\
> Eric Knee — Therapist\
> Francisco\
> Gerry Scoppettuolo\
> Han Hogan-Rigg — Community Health Worker\
> Hope Flynn\
> Hunter\
> John Andreo — Lead Public Health Nurse\
> Jose Gomez\
> Justin Messmer\
> Kiki Broadhurst, RN — Nurse\
> Korin Sundberg — RWCHW\
> Lataisha Mcnary, LPN — Nurse\
> Lauren Klingman — Behavioral Health Specialist\
> M C\
> MarieElaine Kelly, MSN RN\
> Maxwell Guttman\
> Misty Cranston-Bates — Behavioral Health Specialist\
> Nancy, RN — Nurse\
> Natasha Nowel\
> Nicole Warner — Counselor and Advocate, VRP\
> Rachel Ellingson\
> Rebecca MacLellan\
> Rex, RN — Nurse\
> Rory Pryor\
> Rs\
> Ryan Parigoris\
> Sabel Flynn, RN — FSE Family Med Nurse\
> Salvation Burnette\
> Samantha Corvera — Medical Call Center\
> Saumya Sankhavaram — Data Analyst\
> Sofia F.\
> Sy Gitin — Programmer/Analyst\
> Vesper Willow\
> Wallie Moore — Medical Call Center Representative\
> Willa Bandler

### Why Did RJ's Supporters Sign?

“It's a reasonable request. Why spend money on training new staff?”

“Solidarity.”

“Solidarity forever.”

“I have held part-time positions in the past where my employer has verbally told me working in that position would be useful when applying to full-time positions with their organizations, only to see those positions filled with the relatives of board members and outside hires that are ultimately not good at their jobs. I know what it’s like to have my knowledge/skills undervalued so that an employer can continue to benefit from my labor without paying me a living wage.”

“Internal hiring is a standard practice in any industry. Bad mouthing an employee is unacceptable. Fenway is making bad business decisions. I’m signing so [RJ] can be and Fenway union members can have the full time team mate they want and need.”

“I am a longtime Fenway Health patient and want to see Fenway do better! Union Yes.”

“I am a Fenway Health patient and have directly felt the impacts management's ongoing disrespect and refusal to focus on people over profits have had on my and my loved ones' care.”

“I am a Fenway South End patient and union worker signing in solidarity and support of [RJ].”

“I see firsthand [RJ]’s dedication and the way patients trust them. [RJ] deserves this position full-time with benefits!”

“Solidarity across healthcare workers.”

“Workers deserve rights, respect, and safety!”

“[RJ] has demonstrated that they are a PERFECT fit to join our South End team full time. Instead of doing the right thing, management has turned their back on [RJ] after everything they have done for us and our patients. This is cruel and unacceptable and has been a summer-long battle. It’s not over yet, but my faith in our management is *poof* gone after seeing the great amount of effort being used to retaliate against [RJ] instead of solving actual problems at the South End. WE LOVE YOU [RJ]!”

“Quietly firing someone isn't cool.”

“Because if Fenway working well is the goal, hiring [RJ] is the obvious decision to make.”

“[RJ] is an excellent nurse and I believe our team would benefit from them joining our team!”

“[RJ] has been strung along on pay they can’t live on, the staff want them hired, not an outside employee.“

“Because the best person for the job is still waiting to be hired.”

"As a patient, I want nurses who are trusted and supported by their colleagues, and who support their colleagues in their union struggles! Patient/worker solidarity!”

“I trust nurses know what is best for their patients.”

“I’ve worked with [RJ] in my role as a BHS due to their dedication and passion to assisting patients in accessing care they need. [RJ] has reached out to me when their patients have had behavioral health needs and we have collaborated in finding creative solutions to acute problems. [RJ] is a talented and compassionate nurse. It is a loss to both Fenway and our patients to not hire [RJ] as a full time RN.”

“I am a Fenway Health patient who moved to Boston specifically to get care at Fenway Health. It has been devastating to watch the conditions that Fenway’s team is working in, and to see my, my friends’, and my community’s care so disrupted by the high turnover caused by these conditions. Likewise, failing to keep given promises to internal hires is exactly part of the reason for this high turnover. [RJ]’s advocacy for better working conditions is critical for the well-being of Fenway’s nurses and patients alike, and is an invaluable asset to the Fenway nursing team, and this kind of retaliation will only damage Fenway’s care for patients further.”

“[RJ] is an outstanding worker!”

“[RJ] is a capable and educated nurse for the role. I hope they are able to stay and continue to help out patients.”

“Boston is a union city!!!“

“To stand in support of a talented nurse being hired. To stand against retaliation masked as a hiring a more qualified candidate. Nuance retaliation is STILL retaliation.”

“[RJ] helps with nursing visits, inbasket tasks, provider orders. [RJ] worked with me on a Saturday shift and was very helpful, they also know how to use epic”

“Do better Fenway!”

“I am a former Fenway Health patient and am disappointed in Fenway’s leadership. Being outspoken and an advocate is what makes the LGBTQ community powerful, and retaliatory tactics are unacceptable at a mission-driven organization like Fenway.”

“Because [RJ] deserves better!!!!!”

## STATEMENT OF SOLIDARITY WITH STRIKING NURSES AT ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL!

NEW JERSEY — Nurses at RWJ Hospital have been on strike since August 4th. Their demands resonate with nurses everywhere, especially the demand for safe staffing limits.

Whether in the hospital or at the clinic, the truth is that patients do better when nurses have adequate staffing. The situation is especially dire at RWJ Hospital where administrators have failed to respect the expertise of their nurses and negotiate with them towards a shared goal for safe staffing.

The nurses at RWJ are dedicated care providers who only strike because they have no other choice. They’ve made it clear that the strike is the only way that they are able to secure the standards of care that their patients deserve. Without the strike, the hospital administration would continue to exploit them with impunity.

Several RWJ nurses have attested to their bosses gaslighting them into believing that the difficulties of providing care with inadequate staffing are a personal failure of the nurses, and not a systemic failure on the part of the hospital.

The striking nurses and their allies see through the boss’s lies, and we hope that you do, too!

Fenway Rebel Nurse stands in solidarity with the RWJ nurses on the picket line!

ALL POWER TO THE REBEL NURSES AT RWJ!
SOLIDARITY FOREVER!

Follow their progress on instagram: [@rwjnursesunited](https://instagram.com/rwjnursesunited)