---
title: "Fenway Rebel Nurse - Issue 2"
date: 2023-06-22 00:00:00 -0400
author: frn
categories: [Labor Organizing]
tags: [fenway]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

## THE ONGOING STAFFING CRISIS—OPPOSE HURON’S HIRING FREEZE!

Did you know that there's a hiring freeze at Fenway Health? Many of us do not, and nobody can blame us for that; Fenway Health has been hush-hush about it, making no explicit announcements of their hiring freeze on so-called "non-revenue-generating positions," only letting the news slip in direct response to questions from employees, or to those seeking to change positions at the clinic. 

Management plays semantic games, telling us there isn’t actually a hiring freeze, but we’re not actively hiring for many positions. What else can we call it? How long has it been going on? Truly, your guess is as good as ours. But judging by how long we've gone without new hires, it's been quite some time.
But what we do know for certain is whose idea the hiring freeze was: Huron Consulting Group. That's right; Fenway brought on Huron Consulting allegedly to help turn this place around. Instead, clearly they're doing their dirty work, keeping the clinic understaffed, and its employees overworked. How much money do you think they're saving as we perform the work of two, three, or more nurses or medical assistants? How much of it does Huron get? What if instead of squeezing us for every last penny and paying a hefty fee to Huron, they used that money to hire more nurses and medical assistants, and pay everyone a fair wage for their hard work? 

Several nurses and medical assistants offered responses to the following prompt:"Management has told us that there is a hiring freeze for positions that are not "revenue generating," including for nurses and medical assistants. How have the staffing issues impacted your work?"

## REFLECTIONS ON STAFFING FROM FENWAY’S REBEL NURSES & MAs

We sat down with a group of MA's and nurses to ask them how their work has been impacted by the freeze. One MA told us, "They have been stretching our hours." Another MA added, "I worked 12 hours the other day." With MA's leaving at a rate higher than they're being hired, more work falls onto fewer and fewer staff. "At Fenway the problem is that they start you at a higher pay than any other place, but never give you a raise. A lot of medical assistants start at $22 per hour, and there are medical assistants who have been working for years who haven't got a raise and are making the same rate. In Massachusetts you can’t do shit with $22. With the money that Fenway should be giving us in raises, they could at least be hiring more people." When the support staff is short, the whole clinic struggles to function. In solidarity, one LPN stated, "How can you cut positions and then freeze hiring? It’s ridiculous." And on the topic of raises, she had this to say, "I’m supposed to do everything an RN does, but I’m not getting paid as much. I haven’t gotten a raise in five years. I’m not motivated." She appreciated, however, that the staff at the clinic do not even get the bare minimum, let alone raises. "I would understand cutting performance-based raises, but everyone should still be getting a cost-of-living increase." 

“I’ve worked in my nursing position for over a year at this point. I love my work, and my coworkers. I’ve seen people who I oriented with who have been accepted into higher full time positions. I came in letting the management know that this is where I wanted to be after I got my next license. However, now that’s not an option. The place I’m at had become like a second home. I love the providers, MA’s, patient services, and pharmacists. My fellow nurses are amazing. It’s been really heartbreaking to hear that I might not get a full time position because we aren’t revenue generating. I’m sure there are plenty of my patients who would disagree. I will continue doing my due diligence at work, but without the possibility of a full time position, I will start to look elsewhere. I don’t want that, my peers don’t want that, and I know a patient or two who wouldn’t want that. I can only hope that the C Suite will change their definition of “revenue generating” positions to “health generating positions.”

“Since starting at Fenway and as a nurse without too much knowledge of LGBTQIA+ informed healthcare prior to that, I have learned so much on the job and have grown to really love the work we do, day-in, day-out. However, with what I have observed to be the effects of our current staffing and misaligned priorities, it is difficult for me (a person that wants to be here!) to imagine staying at Fenway for the long-term. We are told there is a hiring freeze because we are fully-staffed. Well, if that was the case … why would one or more call-outs on any given day continue to send our management / scheduling team into a frenzy? How could so many calls go unanswered by our nursing staff? Why are so many of our vaccines or medications just simply not inventoried into our Epic system yet? I’m less than a year in and feel burned out over the spectrum and complexity of tasks that me and other nurses are consistently “flagged” on, then combined with the madness that a day in clinic can sometimes be with appointments, walk-ins and other miscellaneous patient requests. WE NEED NURSES. WE NEED AT LEAST 4 FULL-TIME NURSES to a POD! Equip us with the support we need and that we are literally begging for in order to carry on at Fenway! Until staffing levels are thoughtfully and adequately addressed, I know I am not alone in facing my reality of wanting to stay but knowing I would probably get way more more support somewhere else. Your move, management. 

“One or two nurses calling out of work shouldn’t cause chaos in the clinic. But because of the artificial staffing shortage created by management in collaboration with Huron, that’s usually what happens. I know that the economy is bad, and Fenway’s highest earners wouldn’t dare let us forget that THEIR poor budgeting is OUR (and our patients’) problem, but nurse staffing is NOT the appropriate place to cut corners. Huron tells us that because providers are understaffed, nurses must also be understaffed. But just because providers have left, that doesn’t mean that all of their patients have, too (though many of them have). We still have many patients to see, and they deserve our full attention — something we can’t give them if we’re doing the job of 2 or 3 nurses at once. 

Instead of hiring more full- or part-time nurses or treating our essential per diem nurses with any amount of dignity, nurses are guilt-tripped into coming into work sick, exhausted, or otherwise not our best selves. We’re called “heroes” one week then brow-beaten the next. Until we win our union at the clinic, there is only so much we can do to protect our work from these attacks on our wellbeing. 

For my part, I’m not doing a lick more work that I absolutely need to. I used to look at the tasks pile up in the In-Basket and see that as a personal failure to be efficient, but that attitude no longer serves me. I’m not bending over backwards to get the highest possible productivity score, I’m checking in with my team to determine what work can wait until tomorrow, and I’m certainly not taking on any responsibilities associated with this bogus new “charge nurse” role until we get the staff we desperately need. This is only the beginning. I’m prepared to find as many ways as possible to slack off while not endangering patients, and I encourage my fellow nurses & MA’s to do the same! 

To my patients, I am here for you and I want to be able to care for you for a long time. Unlike management, I cannot remain willingly ignorant of the staffing crisis and must prioritize my ability to safely care for you while balancing the dozens of other responsibilities that fall upon fewer and fewer nurses. If you’re not roomed or called back in a timely manner, please file a complaint demanding that Fenway stop the hiring freeze! 

To Fenway management (specifically upper management), you say that this clinic is a business, and this hiring freeze probably makes sense to you for that reason. But to our patients this clinic is what helps them maintain their health to the best of their ability. It keeps them out of crowded hospitals, out of long waits at the emergency room, and in community with people who care about them and want to see them be well. This is in direct contradiction with the priorities of a business. You may not be familiar with the experience of a chronically ill poor person trying to survive in the country, but nurses & MA’s talk to people in that position every day. Many of us could also describe ourselves this way. And we cannot in good conscience sit and wait for you to find it in your heart to give a shit. The time for playing nice has passed, and like all good nurses we are prepared to fight for our coworkers and for our patients. Our financial bottom line is never more important than patients' lives, and one way or another you will be made to understand this fact.”

## NURSES AND MEDICAL ASSISTANTS—FIGHT BACK!

Management tells us that they are fighting back against Huron's recommendations for a hiring freeze for nurses and medical assistants. 

How are they doing this? They collect data representing our ability to complete tasks. The data is then shown to Huron and/or leadership to demonstrate the need for more nurses. 

How is that data collected? In part by our productivity numbers as shown by our In-Basket management in Epic. 

And what have we been told to do with our In-Baskets? Increase productivity! For weeks we have been hearing from management that they are reviewing our productivity. Every day we're shown the numbers in each nursing pool and told to pick up the slack. 

Why? So that Huron can see our impressive productivity and decide that we indeed do NOT need additional nurses or MAs? To work ourselves to the bone in these conditions is a double-edged sword. On the one hand, we get our tasks completed in a timely way; but on the other hand, we inflate our productivity "numbers" used by Huron to determine staffing needs. We push ourselves to the limit because we care about our amazing patients. But this model is unsustainable and we deserve better staffing! 

Take your breaks! Don't push yourself, and set limits!