---
title: "Fenway Rebel Nurse - Issue 3"
date: 2023-08-26 00:00:00 -0400
author: frn
categories: [Labor Organizing]
tags: [fenway]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

## HIRING FREEZE THAWS, BUT MANAGEMENT STILL WAGES A COLD WAR ON STAFF!

The last edition of Fenway Rebel Nurse focused on the hiring freeze imposed on us by management, who to no avail pointed their fingers at top-dollar scapegoat Huron Consulting Group. Thankfully, workers didn't fall for their excuses. Obviously, Huron Consulting gives recommendations while management calls the shots! And now, after nurses and medical assistants made their thoughts clear in our last edition, it seems the bosses are whistling a different tune; finally, Fenway is slowly hiring new staff! But make no mistake, something still stinks!

On August 9th, Fenway Health started reaching out to staff via email to dispel some alleged misunderstandings, stating loud and clear that there never was a hiring freeze at the clinic. Was there never a hiring freeze? Why did we go months without new staff? Why did up to 18 dummy job listings remain posted online with no apparent progress for months? Why did multiple members of staff claim that they were directly told we were under a hiring freeze, especially when seeking to change positions at the clinic? Once again, management is talking out of both sides of their mouths here, telling the lot of us that there's no hiring freeze while using it as an excuse to shut us down in private.

More frustrating still, even though management has reversed course and opened a position for a new RN, instead of hiring one of our coworkers who has been eagerly waiting for this role and already knows and loves the clinic, the bosses have decided to interview other candidates before making a decision. We wanted an end to the hiring freeze, and we want our wonderful coworker to stay. But clearly, in management's eyes, meeting staff demands for a functioning workplace is secondary in importance to lording their arbitrary power over us.

The message we're hearing is thus: "this far and no further!" To that we say: this far and even farther, and farther yet again until victory! We won't play management's dirty games. Until we band together and fight back, they will continue to degrade our working conditions with impunity. We must fight their arbitrary power with power of different type, a power based in reason, a power which is right! We seek people power! Worker power! Alone we are weak; united we are strong! Nurses! Medical assistants! All workers of Fenway Health! Unite and fight!

The precarity imposed on our coworker and prospective RN is felt deeply by all of us. One nurse had this to say:

### **A Reflection on Management's String-Along Tactics from a Rebel Nurse**

>“A few weeks ago we heard about what we thought was a positive development. After nurses relentlessly agitated against Huron’s artificial hiring freeze, we received word that a full time RN position was opening up at our location. I have a dear friend and coworker who has been eagerly awaiting an offer for this role all summer. They just got their new license and graduated with a degree. This part of their career should be full of excitement, but instead management has crushed their spirit. Apparently, management finds it appropriate to interview and consider outside candidates despite practically every member of the team identifying my friend as the person for the job. They are already trained, highly competent, integrated into the team, and have strong rapport with our patients. Apparently, none of that matters and they continue to be heartlessly strung along. Management is playing with their damn life as far as I’m concerned! Because of management’s neglect, they have to keep working per diem, are having their hours cut, and worst of all cannot get health insurance.
>
>What is the reason? I can’t think of any other than a power grab on management’s part. They don’t like that we protect each other, they don’t like that we have solidarity in our hearts and don’t lick the boot. They would rather lose an incredible nurse than lose their complete stranglehold on the clinic’s operations. It’s disgusting, but finally they’re showing their true colors and I hope my coworkers will stop being fooled by all the hot air.”
toc: true

## FENWAY WORKERS UNITED FILES FOR UNION ELECTION WITH NLRB

By now you've probably heard it: workers representing a broad variety of professions at Fenway Health and AIDS Action Committee have petitioned the National Labor Relations Board for a union election! Banding together as Fenway Workers United and seeking to be represented by 1199SEIU of Massachusetts, these workers have reached the requisite number of signed union cards needed to file, and an election is coming this September!

We at Fenway Rebel Nurse will be upfront about how we feel: union yes! Union now! We wholeheartedly support Fenway Workers United in their efforts to unionize our workplace. Dear reader, we ask you to VOTE YES. Solidarity forever! Fenway workers unite and fight!

Fenway workers need a union. Fenway workers deserve a union! But we want to make one thing clear: a union is not something that happens to you; it's something you build with your coworkers! The union isn't a mediator between you and the boss, the union is you. The union is us. And only by standing up for ourselves, putting in the work ourselves, and relying on ourselves will things get better!

The bosses may tell us that the problems we face at Fenway are not unique, that they're affecting clinics and hospitals across the industry. Staffing, for example, remains a significant problem across not only healthcare, but numerous other fields as well. Who gives a shit? A staffing crisis doesn't exist in a vacuum; it results from poor working conditions, low pay, and other workplace problems. It's a symptom of a wider disease: anti-worker practices. We've seen plenty of this at Fenway! They took away our cost-of-living pay adjustments, took away the four-day workweek for those who had it, and in their place have given us an ever-increasing workload.

Furthermore, what little we've seen in the way of positive developments has usually come in the form of rollbacks of changes despised by staff, such as the now-revoked 12-session cap for behavioral health patients, or in concession to proactive staff demands, such as the Racial Equity Action Plan. Either way, the driving force of change has been collective action by the workers. Solidarity is the cure to the disease ravaging our workplace!

Do you care about your patients? Do you want them to receive the best care you can give them? Do you want better working conditions so you can deliver this care? Then vote yes! But more than that, get involved! Get organized!

It's hard work, but step-by-step, little-by-little, we can win. With dedication, grit, and solidarity, we can move mountains.

For more information about Fenway Workers United and the upcoming election, you can visit [www.fenwayworkersunited.org](www.fenwayworkersunited.org).